site/content/docs/main/development.md, before:

---
title: "Development "
layout: docs
---

## Update generated files

Run `make update` to regenerate files if you make the following changes:

* Add/edit/remove command line flags and/or their help text
* Add/edit/remove commands or subcommands
* Add new API types
* Add/edit/remove plugin protobuf message or service definitions

The following files are automatically generated from the source code:

* The clientset
* Listers
* Shared informers
* Documentation
* Protobuf/gRPC types

You can run `make verify` to ensure that all generated files (clientset, listers, shared informers, docs) are up to date.

## Linting

You can run `make lint` which executes golangci-lint inside the build image, or `make local-lint` which executes outside of the build image.
Both `make lint` and `make local-lint` will only run the linter against changes.

Use `lint-all` to run the linter against the entire code base.

The default linters are defined in the `Makefile` via the `LINTERS` variable.

You can also override the default list of linters by  running the command

`$ make lint LINTERS=gosec`

## Test

To run unit tests, use `make test`.

## Using the main branch

If you are developing or using the main branch, note that you may need to update the Velero CRDs to get new changes as other development work is completed.

```bash
velero install --crds-only --dry-run -o yaml | kubectl apply -f -
```

**NOTE:** You could change the default CRD API version (v1beta1 _or_ v1) if Velero CLI can't discover the Kubernetes preferred CRD API version. The Kubernetes version < 1.16 preferred CRD API version is v1beta1; the Kubernetes version >= 1.16 preferred CRD API version is v1.

Commit message:

fix: Clean up golangci-lint config
Signed-off-by: Mateus Oliveira <msouzaol@redhat.com>

site/content/docs/main/development.md, after:

---
title: "Development "
layout: docs
---

## Update generated files

Run `make update` to regenerate files if you make the following changes:

* Add/edit/remove command line flags and/or their help text
* Add/edit/remove commands or subcommands
* Add new API types
* Add/edit/remove plugin protobuf message or service definitions

The following files are automatically generated from the source code:

* The clientset
* Listers
* Shared informers
* Documentation
* Protobuf/gRPC types

You can run `make verify` to ensure that all generated files (clientset, listers, shared informers, docs) are up to date.

## Linting

You can run `make lint` (which executes [`golangci-lint`](https://github.com/golangci/golangci-lint)) to run linters against the entire Go code base.

You can run `make lint-fix` to fix fixable issues found by `make lint`.

The linters, and their settings, are defined in the `.golangci.yaml` file.

Linting is enforced by the project CI through `.github/workflows/pr-linter-check.yml` job.

Linters settings is verified by `hack/verify-lint-config.sh` and is enforced by the project CI through `.github/workflows/pr-ci-check.yml` job.

To update `golangci-lint` used by the project, update:
- `with.version` of golangci/golangci-lint-action in [`.github/workflows/pr-linter-check.yml:19`](https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/velero/blob/main/.github/workflows/pr-linter-check.yml#L19)
- `golangci-lint` version installed in build-image in [`hack/build-image/Dockerfile:96`](https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/velero/blob/main/hack/build-image/Dockerfile#L96)
- documentation reference comment in [`.golangci.yaml:1`](https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/velero/blob/main/.golangci.yaml#L1)

## Test

To run unit tests, use `make test`.

## Using the main branch

If you are developing or using the main branch, note that you may need to update the Velero CRDs to get new changes as other development work is completed.

```bash
velero install --crds-only --dry-run -o yaml | kubectl apply -f -
```

**NOTE:** You could change the default CRD API version (v1beta1 _or_ v1) if Velero CLI can't discover the Kubernetes preferred CRD API version. The Kubernetes version < 1.16 preferred CRD API version is v1beta1; the Kubernetes version >= 1.16 preferred CRD API version is v1.
