## v1.1.0-beta.1
#### 2019-08-07

### Download
- https://github.com/heptio/velero/releases/tag/v1.1.0-beta.1

### Container Image
`gcr.io/heptio-images/velero:v1.1.0-beta.1`

### Documentation
https://velero.io/docs/v1.1.0-beta.1/


### All Changes

  * adds the ability to define custom tags to be added to snapshots by specifying custom labels on the Backup CR with the `velero backup create --labels` flag (#1729, @prydonius)
  * Restore restic volumes from PodVolumeBackups CRs (#1723, @carlisia)
  * properly restore PVs backed up with restic and a reclaim policy of "Retain" (#1713, @skriss)
  * Make `--secret-file` flag on `velero install` optional, add `--no-secret` flag for explicit confirmation (#1699, @nrb)
  * Add low cpu/memory limits to the restic init container. This allows for restoration into namespaces with quotas defined. (#1677, @nrb)
  * Adds configurable CPU/memory requests and limits to the restic DaemonSet generated by velero install. (#1710, @prydonius)
  * remove any stale locks from restic repositories every 5m (#1708, @skriss)
  * error if backup storage location's Bucket field also contains a prefix, and gracefully handle leading/trailing slashes on Bucket and Prefix fields. (#1694, @skriss)
  * enhancement: allow option to choose JSON log output  (#1654, @carthewd)
  * Adds configurable CPU/memory requests and limits to the Velero Deployment generated by velero install. (#1678, @prydonius)
  * Store restic PodVolumeBackups in obj storage & use that as source of truth like regular backups. (#1577, @carlisia)
  * Update Velero Deployment to use apps/v1 API group. `velero install` and `velero plugin add/remove` commands will now require Kubernetes 1.9+ (#1673, @nrb)
  * Respect the --kubecontext and --kubeconfig arugments for `velero install`. (#1656, @nrb)
  * add plugin for updating PV & PVC storage classes on restore based on a config map (#1621, @skriss)
  * Add restic support for CSI volumes (#1615, @nrb)
  * bug fix: Fixed namespace usage with cli command 'version' (#1630, @jwmatthews)
  * enhancement: allow users to specify additional Velero/Restic pod annotations on the command line with the pod-annotations flag. (#1626, @tlkamp)
  * adds validation for pod volumes hostPath mount on restic server startup (#1616, @prydonius)
  * enable support for ppc64le architecture (#1605, @prajyot)
  * bug fix: only restore additional items returned from restore item actions if they match the restore's namespace/resource selectors (#1612, @skriss)
  * add startTimestamp and completionTimestamp to PodVolumeBackup and PodVolumeRestore status fields (#1609, @prydonius)
  * bug fix: respect namespace selector when determining which restore item actions to run (#1607, @skriss)
  * ensure correct backup item actions run with namespace selector (#1601, @prydonius)
  * allows excluding resources from backups with the `velero.io/exclude-from-backup=true` label (#1588, @prydonius)
  * ensures backup item action modifications to an item's namespace/name are saved in the file path in the tarball (#1587, @prydonius)
  * Hides `velero server` and `velero restic server` commands from the list of available commands as these are not intended for use by the velero CLI user. (#1561, @prydonius)
  * remove dependency on glog, update to klog (#1559, @skriss)
  * move issue-template-gen from docs/ to hack/ (#1558, @skriss)
  * fix panic when processing DeleteBackupRequest objects without labels (#1556, @prydonius)
  * support for multiple AWS profiles (#1548, @pranavgaikwad)
  * Add CLI command to list (get) all Velero plugins (#1535, @carlisia)
  * Added author as a tag on blog post.  Should fix 404 error when trying to follow link as specified in issue #1522. (#1522, @coonsd)
  * Allow individual backup storage locations to be read-only (#1517, @skriss)
  * Stop returning an error when a restic volume is empty since it is a valid scenario. (#1480, @carlisia)
  * add ability to use wildcard in includes/excludes (#1428, @guilhem)
